# Insurance-Fradulent-Claim
Insurance fraud claims have become a major problem in the insurance industry for the past decade. Certain clients take advantage of this matter to gain benefits. Hence, several investigations have been carried out to eliminate negative impacts on the insurance industry as this immoral act has caused loss of billions of dollars. In previous studies, Artificial Neural Network, Decision Trees, Support Vector Machine, Naïve Bayesian Classification and Logistic Regression have become well-known and useful machine learning techniques for predicting insurance fraudulent claims. However, most of the conventional techniques are unable to handle either large datasets or imbalanced data or both. In addition, Support Vector Machine is one of the conventional techniques which time-consuming in model construction. Decision-tree-based ensemble machine learning classifiers such as XGBoost and AdaBoost have been reported to show potential in better prediction performances especially for large and imbalanced dataset. Therefore, this study evaluates various machine learning classifiers and Boosting algorithms for the insurance fraudulent claims prediction. The dataset was obtained from Kaggle websites and consists of 10,299 cases with 23 variables. The drivers’ demographic (Age, Gender, Marital Status, Income, Education, Home Value, Occupation, Number of Children, Number of Children can Drive, Single Parent, Urban City, Year on Job and Travel Time), vehicle factors (Car Type, Car Use and Car Age), insurance factors (Number of Claim, Total Claim Amount, and Time in Force) and license charges factors (Motor Vehicle Records Points and Revoked) are used to predict fraudulent claims. After the data has been cleaned, the sample consists of 10,191 cases and slightly imbalanced with 2,691 cases (26.40%) of fraud claims and 7,500 cases (73.59%) of not-fraud claims. Furthermore, the cleaned dataset was used to develop and evaluate six conventional machine learning models such as (Logistic Regression, Naïve Bayes, Support Vector Machine, Artificial Neural Network, Random Forest, Decision Tree) and one Boosting algorithm machine learning (AdaBoost).
